# hackBCA III
> [Official Website](http://hackbca.com/)

## General Overview (Without Opinion)
hackBCA III was an event known as a hackathon hosted for anybody willing to come. Hackathons are designed to be places where people can collaberate intensively on software projects. At the start of the hackathon (4:00PM) we were ushered into the auditorium where we heard speeches given by Chris Wanstrath (Github CEO), Josh Bancroft (Intel) and Tom Lehman (CEO of Genius). Chris Wanstrath gave a speech concerning his life before becoming a Github CEO and how it could be a lesson for all of us to learn from. Chris talked about how he got his first job in a trucking business where he worked on logistics then moved on to work at GameSpot and finally founding Github. Originally Github was just for him and a couple of friends to make life easier, but later as more people started requesting the service he took it as a full time job and Github is what it is today. Chris also mentioned what it is like for us living in the 21st century with personal computers. He says it is possible to do almost anything with a computer whereas people in the past did not have that opportunity. I believe he also mentioned a key point about following your passion, while doing what you think is right. Tom on the otherhand told us to make something "sucky" at the hackathon. Tom had also started Genius at a hackathon and he believed that if he had never made that first sucky prototype he would not be here today. Sometimes we are too afraid to make something sucky, yet you have to start from somewhere. He also mentioned that a hackathon was not just about "making something" because people could learn a lot from a hackathon even if they did not make anything. 

After the opening ceremonies, the hackers were free to do whatever they wanted for the next 24 hours. Food was provided (3 meals) including snacks during the night and junkfood always availible. There were also workshops led by people from all different tech companies concerning all different kinds of topics such as machine learning and website development. Everyone had the choice to work in the gymnasium, the cafeteria or the common area (reserved for quiet hacking). In the gymnasium there was also a hardware hacking station with soldering irons, 3D printers, arduino boards and even the Oculus Rift free for anybody to borrow! I observed that a good portion of the people just started to play video games and not actually code, throughout the entire event some people did not code even once. Late into the morning, probably around 2:00, there was a room opened where people could sleep on the ground. We ended sleeping just two hours and then going back. At approximately 12:40PM the next day, when all of the hacks were submitted, people were called down for the first exhibition. In the exhibition, students presented their work to anybody that walked by including judges that were responsible for scoring everyone. After 2 exhibitions, the winners were determined and everyone was ushered into the auditorium for the closing ceremonies. Many prizes were given out to all different categories and 5 demos were given live on the stage. The hackathon concluded at 4:00 where we each got a giant plate of sandwiches because the hosts had bought to much food.

## My Opinions
### Entering The Gym
When we first entered the gym to choose a spot for the hackathon there was quite a unique feeling. After walking to the smaller cafeteria and the common area, that feeling just did not exist in the other areas. In the gym, I felt like we were actually part of an event because there were people everywhere talking, laughing, coding or playing videogames. But in the other rooms, it felt dead, lifeless and made the event seem small. That is why we decided to set up in the gym.

### Just Fun and Games
As I noted before, there was a good portion of the hackers that just started to play games. My theory is that since nobody really cares if you hack or not, these people can do whatever they want. Combining that with the fact they get unlimited junkfood, plus their friends, and nobody to force them to go to sleep it is like paradise. Hackers can just play video games and have fun.

### Walking and Talking
I found out that the best way to explain your idea to someone is to implement Steve Job's method. The Steve Job's method is where you ask someone to walk with you as your explain your idea to them. I believe the benefits of explaining your ideas this way is that the person is fully concentrated in what your saying instead of looking at their phone or surfing the web. The walking also probably stimulates the mind which also enhances how both of you are thinking. Finally by walking, the atmosphere is set to be very casual as if it were just a walk in the park on sunday morning and the other person is more likely to accept your ideas. That is what we did, whenever we had a pending idea or something to talk about, we just got up and walked down the hallway (we were restricted to a single hallway) back and forth until we finished.

### Purpose of a Hackathon
I feel like the main purpose of a hackathon is to give you the environment where all you have to do is hack on the projects that matter. You don't have to worry about food, sleep or any other restrictions and just do your hacking (not sleeping does really impair your efficiency and mood for the following 12 hours). However when you really think about it, how much can you really do in 24 hours? It is really hard to making something that could change the world in 24 hours, unless you prepared months ahead of time. That is why most people seem to be forced to work on small ideas just so they can win some prize. But the real purpose is not to build something small and sucky because then you just wasted your 24 hours. I feel like a hackathon is not just about learning from sucky stuff but just making incremental steps toward your big gamechanging project that will affect the world. At the hackathon you could meet professionals that could help you debug, or give you tips. You can talk with hundreds of students and definitely find a student that has similar interests to yours and maybe start collaberating. I feel like Tom was wrong when he said make something sucky at a hackathon. That's great that you won some prize but have you made anything amazing? Well... So hackathons should be changed to be the place where you can bring your projects then find the professionals and passionate peers to help you make your vision a reality. 

### Unprepared & Inexperienced
I can say that unpreparedness and inexperience is probably what stopped us the most at the hackathon. We had a couple ideas but those ideas simply could not be implemented in 24 hours. Even if we did have an idea that could be implemented in 24 hours, we realized we had no experience. We could not find a mentor for guidance when we were lost and confused and were left to struggle on our own. However, this served a good learning point for us in the fact that we realized how much more we have to learn. We had to learn not just more about the general idea of coding, but also specific topics such as machine learning to really have any chance to implement our idea. This will give us motivation to learn more in the coming weeks and months, then start on a project that we think will affect the world. 

### Good Ideas > Solid Experience
I still believe we have a good future ahead of us because we are always thinking up of ideas, some better than others. But nevertheless you can always learn more but you cannot really learn how to make good ideas. Seeing that we seem to have a good way of generating ideas then refining them we should have no problem in this department. But now that we have seen our weaknesses, it is time to step up our game and start learning not only how to learn but actual STUFF!!!!!!
